docs/editorOverview.md, before:

# Getting to Know the Unity 3D Editor

[Session Video](https://youtu.be/qdIiY5UsLPQ).

The organisation of the main windows in your running editor might differ to that shown in Figure 1 below,  because the layout can be rearranged according to your preferences. However, you should have several key windows:

![The Unity Editor](./images/unityEditor.png)

_Figure 1: The Unity Editor_

The _Toolbar_ appears at the top of the Editor. It allows you to do things like play or pause your scene, or access your Unity account. It is the only part of the Editor interface that you can’t rearrange.

The _Scene_ view is your interactive view into the world you are creating.

The _Game_ view is rendered from the Camera(s) in your game. _Note of caution_: **if you make changes in the Game view these won’t be saved!**

The _Hierarchy_ window contains a list of every GameObject in the current Scene.

The _Inspector_ displays detailed information about the currently selected GameObject, including all attached components and their properties, and allows you to modify the functionality of GameObjects in your Scene.

The _Project_ window displays all of the files related to the open project. It is the main way you can navigate and find Assets and other Project files in your application.

The _Console_ window shows errors, warnings and other messages generated by Unity (and your scripts).

## Scene Navigation

There are a variety of methods and tools for moving around and orienting the _Scene_, as well as positioning and transforming _GameObjects_ within that scene. It is a good idea to familiarise yourself with them as the scene is your entry point into the world you are creating.

### Scene Orientation

The orientation gizmo, shown in Figure 2 below, shows the orientation of your scene. 

![Orientation Gizmo](./images/editorSceneGizmo.png)

_Figure 2: Orientation Gizmo_

The gizmo has a conical arm on each side of the cube. The arms at the forefront are labelled X, Y, and Z and you can click on any of the conical axis arms to snap the _Scene_ to that axis. You can also right-click the cube to see a menu with a list of viewing angles. To return to the default angle, right-click the Orientation overlay and select _Free_.

You can also toggle Perspective on and off. This changes the projection mode of the _Scene_ view between _Perspective_ and _Orthographic_ (sometimes called “isometric”). Click the cube in the center of the Orientation overlay, or the text below it. The _Orthographic_ view has no perspective, and is useful in combination with clicking one of the conical axis arms to get a front, top or side elevation. 

### Move, Orbit and Zoom Tools

There are a number of ways to move around the scene.

- Orbit

Holding the alt key (or the option key on a MAC) and hold down the left mouse button. This let's you orbit around the scene. 

- Zoom

Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out. Alternatively, hold the alt key (or the option key on a MAC) and the right mouse button, then move your mouse.

- Framing

Quickly zoom in on an object in the scene so you can inspect it closer. To _frame_, simply double click on a _GameObect_ in the hierarchy. Or, highlight _GameObect_ in the hierarchy, then, with your mouse over the _Scene_ view, press _F_.

- WASD

In the _Scene_ view, press the right mouse button and move the mouse to rotate the view and look around. Additionally, with the right mouse button down, you can enty _flythrough mode_, which lets you move and rotate your view at the same time.

W - Forward
S - Back
A - Left
D - Right

- Align with View

_Align with View_ (and _Move to View_), available via _GameObject > Align with View_, is often a useful operation to perform on the camera that is used to view the scene in the _Game_ view, as it allows your player to have the same view you use to design the scene.

### Scene View Tools

The scene view tools, shown in Figure 3 below, allow you to view the scene, as well as move, rotate, scale or transform _GameObjects_.

![Scene View Tools](./images/sceneViewTools.png)

You can click on each of the tool gizmos to use them. Alternatively, use the _QWERTY_ keys on your keyboard:

Q - View
W - Move
E - Rotate
R - Scale
T - Rect Transform
Y - Transform

## External Links

- [Scene View Navigation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SceneViewNavigation.html)
- [Master 3D Scene Navigation](https://learn.unity.com/pathway/unity-essentials/unit/editor-essentials/tutorial/master-3d-scene-navigation?version=6)

Commit message:

add an intro to the editor overview

docs/editorOverview.md, after:

# Getting to Know the Unity 3D Editor

[Session Video](https://youtu.be/qdIiY5UsLPQ).

Below is a whistle-stop tour of the Unity Editor, which you load via the Unity Hub.

## The Unity Editor

The organisation of the main windows in your running editor might differ to that shown in Figure 1 below,  because the layout can be rearranged according to your preferences. However, you should have several key windows:

![The Unity Editor](./images/unityEditor.png)

_Figure 1: The Unity Editor_

The _Toolbar_ appears at the top of the Editor. It allows you to do things like play or pause your scene, or access your Unity account. It is the only part of the Editor interface that you can’t rearrange.

The _Scene_ view is your interactive view into the world you are creating.

The _Game_ view is rendered from the Camera(s) in your game. _Note of caution_: **if you make changes in the Game view these won’t be saved!**

The _Hierarchy_ window contains a list of every GameObject in the current Scene.

The _Inspector_ displays detailed information about the currently selected GameObject, including all attached components and their properties, and allows you to modify the functionality of GameObjects in your Scene.

The _Project_ window displays all of the files related to the open project. It is the main way you can navigate and find Assets and other Project files in your application.

The _Console_ window shows errors, warnings and other messages generated by Unity (and your scripts).

## Scene Navigation

There are a variety of methods and tools for moving around and orienting the _Scene_, as well as positioning and transforming _GameObjects_ within that scene. It is a good idea to familiarise yourself with them as the scene is your entry point into the world you are creating.

### Scene Orientation

The orientation gizmo, shown in Figure 2 below, shows the orientation of your scene. 

![Orientation Gizmo](./images/editorSceneGizmo.png)

_Figure 2: Orientation Gizmo_

The gizmo has a conical arm on each side of the cube. The arms at the forefront are labelled X, Y, and Z and you can click on any of the conical axis arms to snap the _Scene_ to that axis. You can also right-click the cube to see a menu with a list of viewing angles. To return to the default angle, right-click the Orientation overlay and select _Free_.

You can also toggle Perspective on and off. This changes the projection mode of the _Scene_ view between _Perspective_ and _Orthographic_ (sometimes called “isometric”). Click the cube in the center of the Orientation overlay, or the text below it. The _Orthographic_ view has no perspective, and is useful in combination with clicking one of the conical axis arms to get a front, top or side elevation. 

### Move, Orbit and Zoom Tools

There are a number of ways to move around the scene.

- Orbit

Holding the alt key (or the option key on a MAC) and hold down the left mouse button. This let's you orbit around the scene. 

- Zoom

Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out. Alternatively, hold the alt key (or the option key on a MAC) and the right mouse button, then move your mouse.

- Framing

Quickly zoom in on an object in the scene so you can inspect it closer. To _frame_, simply double click on a _GameObect_ in the hierarchy. Or, highlight _GameObect_ in the hierarchy, then, with your mouse over the _Scene_ view, press _F_.

- WASD

In the _Scene_ view, press the right mouse button and move the mouse to rotate the view and look around. Additionally, with the right mouse button down, you can enty _flythrough mode_, which lets you move and rotate your view at the same time.

W - Forward
S - Back
A - Left
D - Right

- Align with View

_Align with View_ (and _Move to View_), available via _GameObject > Align with View_, is often a useful operation to perform on the camera that is used to view the scene in the _Game_ view, as it allows your player to have the same view you use to design the scene.

### Scene View Tools

The scene view tools, shown in Figure 3 below, allow you to view the scene, as well as move, rotate, scale or transform _GameObjects_.

![Scene View Tools](./images/sceneViewTools.png)

You can click on each of the tool gizmos to use them. Alternatively, use the _QWERTY_ keys on your keyboard:

Q - View
W - Move
E - Rotate
R - Scale
T - Rect Transform
Y - Transform

## External Links

- [Scene View Navigation](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SceneViewNavigation.html)
- [Master 3D Scene Navigation](https://learn.unity.com/pathway/unity-essentials/unit/editor-essentials/tutorial/master-3d-scene-navigation?version=6)
